= Technical Report on AI and Multimedia Authenticity Standards

== Introduction

This report provides a comprehensive overview of various standards and
specifications related to digital media, focusing on content provenance,
trust authenticity, asset identifiers, opt-out mechanisms, and
watermarking. These standards are essential for ensuring the integrity,
authenticity, and proper management of digital content. As digital media
continues to evolve, the need for robust standards becomes increasingly
critical to protect the interests of creators, consumers, and
organizations.

The standards discussed in this report are developed by various Standard
Development Organizations (SDOs) and groups, each contributing to
different aspects of digital media management. By adhering to these
guidelines, organizations can maintain the trustworthiness and
provenance of their digital assets, ensuring that content remains
authentic and traceable throughout its lifecycle.

== Content Provenance

Content provenance refers to the documentation of the origin and history
of digital content. It is crucial for verifying the authenticity and
integrity of digital assets. Provenance information helps in tracking
the creation, modification, and distribution of content, providing a
transparent record that can be used to establish trust and
accountability. This is particularly important in contexts where the
authenticity of content is paramount, such as in journalism, scientific
research, and digital art.

=== Standards and Specifications

==== C2PA Content Credentials

____
*SDO/Group:* C2PA

*Link:*
https://c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/2.1/specs/C2PA_Specification.html[[.underline]#C2PA
Specification#]
____

image:media/image1.png[media/image1] *Details:* This standard provides
guidelines for embedding content credentials in digital media to ensure
provenance.

It outlines methods for attaching metadata to digital assets, which can
include information about the creator, creation date, and any
modifications made to the content. This helps in maintaining a
verifiable record of the content's history.

==== ISO 22144 Content Credentials

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO TC 171/SC 2

*Link:* https://www.iso.org/standard/90726.html[[.underline]#ISO 22144#]
____

image:media/image2.png[media/image2] *Details:* This ISO standard
outlines methods for documenting content credentials to maintain
provenance. It specifies the types of metadata that should be included
and the formats for storing this information. By following these
guidelines, organizations can ensure that their digital content is
traceable and its authenticity can be verified.

==== JPEG Trust

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 1

*Link:* https://www.iso.org/standard/86831.html[[.underline]#ISO
21617-1:2025#]
____

image:media/image3.png[media/image3] *Details:* This standard focuses on
ensuring trust in JPEG images through provenance documentation. It
provides a framework for embedding provenance information directly into
JPEG files, allowing users to verify the authenticity and history of the
images. This is particularly useful in contexts where image manipulation
is common, such as in digital forensics and media.

==== Originator Profile

____
*SDO/Group:* Originator Profile

*Link:*
https://originator-profile.org/en-US/[[.underline]#Or#ig[.underline]#inator
Profile#]
____

*Details:* This specification provides a framework for documenting the
origin of digital content. It includes guidelines for creating and
maintaining profiles that capture detailed information about the
content's creator and its creation process. This helps in establishing a
clear and verifiable record of the content's provenance.

==== PROV

____
*SDO/Group:* Open Provenance

*Link:* https://openprovenance.org/[[.underline]#PROV#]
____

image:media/image3.png[media/image3] *Details:* This standard offers a
model for representing provenance information in digital content. It
defines a set of concepts and relationships that can be used to describe
the history of a digital asset, including its creation, modification,
and distribution. This model can be applied across various types of
digital content, providing a flexible and comprehensive approach to
provenance documentation.

== Trust and Authenticity

Trust and authenticity standards ensure that digital content is genuine
and has not been tampered with. These standards are essential for
maintaining the integrity of digital media, especially in environments
where content manipulation is a significant concern. By implementing
trust and authenticity measures, organizations can protect their digital
assets from unauthorized alterations and ensure that consumers can rely
on the content they receive.

=== Standards and Specifications

==== H.MMAUTH: Framework for Authentication of Multimedia Content

____
*SDO/Group:* ITU-T/SG-13 & ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC29
____

image:media/image3.png[media/image3] *Details:* This framework provides
guidelines for authenticating multimedia content. It includes methods
for

verifying the integrity of digital media files and ensuring that they
have not been altered since their creation. This helps in maintaining
the trustworthiness of multimedia content in various applications, such
as broadcasting and digital archiving.

==== ISO/IEC TR 24028:2020

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 42

*Link:*
https://www.iso.org/standard/77608.html?browse=tc[[.underline]#ISO/IEC
TR 24028:2020#]
____

image:media/image4.png[media/image4] *Details:* This standard offers an
overview of trustworthiness in artificial intelligence. It provides
guidelines for assessing the reliability and integrity of AI systems,
ensuring that they produce trustworthy results. This is crucial in
applications where AI is used to generate or manipulate digital content,
as it helps in maintaining the authenticity of the output.

==== ITU-T Y.3054

____
*SDO/Group:* ITU-T

*Link:*
https://standards.globalspec.com/std/13059031/itu-t-y-3054[[.underline]#ITU-T
Y.3054#]
____

image:media/image5.png[media/image5] *Details:* This framework provides
guidelines for trust-based media services. It includes methods for
establishing and maintaining trust in digital media platforms, ensuring
that users can rely on the content they access. This is particularly
important in contexts where media services are used to distribute
sensitive or high-value content.

==== Trust.txt

____
*SDO/Group:* JournalList

*Link:*
https://journallist.net/reference-document-for-trust-txt-specifications[[.underline]#Trust.txt#]
____

image:media/image3.png[media/image3] *Details:* This specification
outlines methods for establishing trust in digital content. It includes
guidelines for creating and maintaining trust.txt files, which can be
used to document the trustworthiness of digital assets. This helps in
ensuring that users can verify the authenticity of the content they
receive.

==== Chromium Reputation Provider Framework

____
*SDO/Group:* Google's Chrome Team
____

*Link:*
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wTFafdHa-o3OYCKmYzEJGROrpSoxXN6DNXPltzdiUzg/ed[[.underline]#Chromium
Reputation Provider Framework#]

image:media/image6.png[media/image6] *Details:* This framework provides
guidelines for reputation management in digital content. It includes
methods for assessing and maintaining the reputation of digital assets,
ensuring that users can trust the content they access. This is
particularly important in contexts where reputation is a key factor in
determining the value and reliability of digital media.

== Asset Identifiers

Asset identifiers are unique codes assigned to digital content to ensure
proper management and tracking. These identifiers help in maintaining a
clear and organized record of digital assets, making it easier to manage
and distribute content. By using asset identifiers, organizations can
ensure that their digital media is properly tracked and accounted for,
reducing the risk of loss or unauthorized use.

=== Standards and Specifications

==== ISCC: International Standard Content Code (ISCC)

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO/TC 46/SC 9

*Link:* https://www.iso.org/standard/77899.html[[.underline]#ISO 24138#]
____

image:media/image7.png[media/image7] *Details:* This standard provides a
unique identifier for digital content. It includes guidelines for
creating and maintaining ISCC codes, which can be used to track and
manage digital assets. This helps in ensuring that content is properly
accounted for and can be easily identified and retrieved.

==== Unique Media Identifier (UMid)

____
*SDO/Group:* IWA 44

*Link:*
https://www.din.de/en/din-and-our-partners/press/press-releases/iwa-44-unique-me[[.underline]#UMid#]
____

image:media/image8.png[media/image8] *Details:* This specification
offers a unique identifier for media content. It includes methods for
creating and maintaining UMid codes, which can be used to track and
manage media assets. This helps in ensuring that content is properly
accounted for and can be easily identified and retrieved.

== Opt-Out Mechanisms

Opt-out mechanisms allow users to exclude their content from certain
processes, such as data mining or AI training. These mechanisms are
essential for protecting the privacy and rights of content creators,
ensuring that their digital assets are not used without their consent.
By implementing opt-out mechanisms, organizations can provide users with
greater control over their content and ensure that their rights are
respected.

=== Standards and Specifications

==== TDM Reservation Protocol

____
*SDO/Group:* W3C

*Link:* https://www.w3.org/ns/tdmrep/[[.underline]#TDMRep#]
____

image:media/image7.png[media/image7] *Details:* This protocol provides
guidelines for reserving content from text and data mining. It includes
methods for creating and maintaining TDMRep files, which can be used to
document the reservation of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that
content is not used for data mining without the creator's consent.

==== Spawning ai.txt

____
*SDO/Group:* Spawning

*Link:* https://spawning.ai/ai-txt[[.underline]#Spawning#
[.underline]#ai.txt#]
____

image:media/image9.png[media/image9] *Details:* This specification
offers a method for opting out of AI training. It includes guidelines
for creating and maintaining ai.txt files, which can be used to document
the opt-out of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that content is
not used for AI training without the creator's consent.

==== Robots.txt

____
*SDO/Group:* IETF

*Link:* https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9309[[.underline]#RFC
9309#]
____

image:media/image9.png[media/image9] *Details:* This standard provides
guidelines for excluding content from web crawlers. It includes methods
for creating and maintaining robots.txt files, which can be used to
document the exclusion of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that
content is not accessed by web crawlers without the creator's consent.

==== Vocabulary for Expressing Content Preferences for AI

____
*SDO/Group:* IETF
____

*Link:*
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-vaughan-aipref-vocab/[[.underline]#draft-vaughan-aipref-vocab-00#]

image:media/image7.png[media/image7] *Details:* This draft offers a
vocabulary for expressing content preferences for AI. It includes
guidelines for creating and maintaining preference files, which can be
used to document the preferences of digital assets. This helps in
ensuring that content is used in accordance with the creator's
preferences.

== Watermarking

Watermarking standards ensure that digital content is marked in a way
that can be used to verify its authenticity and ownership. These
standards are essential for protecting the rights of content creators
and ensuring that their digital assets are not used without their
consent. By implementing watermarking measures, organizations can
provide users with greater control over their content and ensure that
their rights are respected.

=== Standards and Specifications

==== Open Binding of Content Identifiers (OBID)

____
*SDO/Group:* SMPTE

*Link:*
https://pub.smpte.org/pub/st2112-10/st2112-10-2020.pdf[[.underline]#SMPTE
ST 2112-10:2020#]
____

image:media/image7.png[media/image7] *Details:* This standard provides
guidelines for binding content identifiers to digital media. It includes
methods for creating and maintaining OBID files, which can be used to
document the binding of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that
content is properly accounted for and can be easily identified and
retrieved.

==== X.ig-dw: Implementation Guidelines for Digital Watermarking

____
*SDO/Group:* ITU-T SG17

*Link:*
https://www.itu.int/md/T22-SG17-240902-TD-PLEN-2413/en[[.underline]#2413-PLEN#]
____

image:media/image10.png[media/image10] *Details:* This guideline offers
methods for implementing digital watermarking. It includes guidelines
for creating and maintaining watermark files, which can be used to
document the watermarking of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that
content is properly accounted for and can be easily identified and
retrieved.

==== Specification of Digital Rights Management (DRM) Technology for Digital Publications

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 34

*Link:* https://www.iso.org/standard/84956.html[[.underline]#ISO/IEC
23078-1:2024#]
____

image:media/image11.png[media/image11] *Details:* This standard provides
an overview of DRM technologies for digital publications. It includes
guidelines for creating and maintaining DRM files, which can be used to
document the DRM of digital assets. This helps in ensuring that content
is properly accounted for and can be easily identified and retrieved.

==== A Review of Medical Image Watermarking Requirements for Teleradiology

____
*SDO/Group:* NIH
____

*Link:*
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3597963/[[.underline]#Medical
Image Watermarking#]

image:media/image12.png[media/image12] *Details:* This review outlines
the requirements for watermarking medical images for teleradiology. It
includes guidelines for creating and maintaining watermark files, which
can be used to document the watermarking of medical images. This helps
in ensuring that content is properly accounted for and can be easily
identified and retrieved.

==== Evaluation Tools for Persistent Association Technologies

____
*SDO/Group:* ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11
____

*Link:*
https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/es/#iso%3Astd%3Aiso-iec%3Atr%3A21000%3A-11%3Aed-1%3Av1%3Aen[[.underline]#ISO/IEC
TR 21000-11:2004#]

image:media/image13.png[media/image13] *Details:* This standard provides
tools for evaluating persistent association technologies. It includes
guidelines for creating and maintaining evaluation files, which can be
used to document the evaluation of digital assets. This helps in
ensuring that content is properly accounted for and can be easily
identified and retrieved.

==== IEEE Draft Standard for Evaluation Method of Robustness of Digital Watermarking Implementation in Digital Contents

____
*SDO/Group:* IEEE

*Link:* https://standards.ieee.org/ieee/3361/11224/[[.underline]#IEEE
P3361#]
____

image:media/image13.png[media/image13] *Details:* This draft standard
offers methods for evaluating the robustness of digital watermarking. It
includes guidelines for creating and maintaining evaluation files, which
can be used to document the evaluation of digital assets. This helps in
ensuring that content is properly accounted for and can be easily
identified and retrieved.

== Conclusion

The standards and specifications outlined in this report are essential
for ensuring the integrity, authenticity, and proper management of
digital content. By adhering to these guidelines, organizations can
maintain the trustworthiness and provenance of their digital assets,
ensuring that content remains authentic and traceable throughout its
lifecycle. As digital media continues to evolve, the need for robust
standards becomes increasingly critical to protect the interests of
creators, consumers, and organizations.

Would you like to expand more on any specific section or need help with
another task?
